Good
morning.
Good morning.
Thank you so much.
So, good morning. We have half an hour with you.
So I believe it's Sophie Haslam. Is that correct?
Yes, that's right. Yeah.
Thank you so much, and your team. So if you want to open with
some remarks, and then we can have questions from members. Thank you.
Thank you so much. So I'm Sophie Haslam, I'm the chair of Cordia.
On this side, I have Neil Livingstone, who is the CEO.
He's just gone through two years in that position.
And Jason Fullingtons Smith, who is the
executive general manager of specialized solutions.
He's been with Cordia for 15 years, so any really technical, complex
questions, he'll cover us for that one.
And I think Neil's going to open with some remarks just to talk about the
year in question for you.
Thank you.
Yes. I thought I'd just take a little bit of time, not too long, just to sort
of paint a little bit of the picture of
FY25. It was a really important year for Cordia, and I think a little bit
of context, which probably doesn't necessarily come through
in the annual report might be helpful and just help the discussion.
So if I was to summarize FY25 for us, it really was
a year of change and transformation.
It was quite a unusual year for Cordia in that we took a lot of decisions.
We took some bold decisions, and we made some key changes to the
company, which is going to really set us up
for the future.
We spent quite a lot of time
really thinking through what the purpose of Cordia is and what our core
purpose and what we deliver to both New Zealand and our
shareholder and make sure that that's top of mind.
And we really, really spent a lot of time thinking about how do we return to our
financial targets, how do we cut our costs to
meet
our revenues and make sure that we hit our numbers, because that's incredibly
important.
Cordia is an organization which does many things.
So I thought I'd just take a couple seconds just to sort of briefly tell you the
main highlights, because it's not a company people are typically
sort of knowledgeable about. Media and broadcast, so that's our history.
That's where we came from. We've been in that business for sixty-five years
through different names, through NZBC and
eventually rebranding ourself to Cordia.
But the broadcast industry, delivering TV and radio signals
is really where we came through as an organization, and that still
flows through as to who we are and at our essence,
what we do. We are technical experts.The
next significant area we've spent a lot of time focusing on and have a relatively
large team on is around cybersecurity.
So we look after cybersecurity for our customers, both
protecting them but also helping them if they unfortunately get breached,
with an incident response team. And help them not just with the technical aspects,
but also how do they just manage internally, how do they manage the
communications.
One area of Cordia that not many people know that we do is around our
maritime space. So we have two maritime operation
centers, one in Canberra, Australia, and one here in Wellington.
And between those two, we look after about a quarter of the world's oceans from a
safety of life perspective. So what that means is if you're in your boat and
you're sort of up towards the equator or down towards
Antarctica and you have an issue and
either EPIRB goes off or you use various communications
methods, we're the ones sitting on the other end of the line twenty-four seven
answering, helping,
sort of moving through to coordinating.
And typically, we get about roughly five
safety of life calls a week that come through our center.
So it's a significant
activity that we're doing. We're very, very proud to do that.
We have a relatively large team across New Zealand, which looks after all of our
assets. So if you look up on the top of the mountains, many parts of New Zealand,
you see those big, tall lattice towers.
They're typically owned by Cordia, and we have our communications equipment sitting
across those. And we have teams spread out across New Zealand to manage
those. But only about a third of their time is actually
spent working on our equipment. We actually use them
to provide services to other entities, be they
New Zealand Defense Force,
airways,
MetService, customers like those that own typical
infrastructure like Cordia does, and we help them from a
maintenance perspective.
And then sort of the fifth area is we have four operation
centers. So I talked about the two maritime operation centers.
We also have a security operation center, which is attached to our cyber division,
and we have a network operation center which manages our network, and we're
actually starting to move to selling that as a service to other customers as well.
So that's sort of the breadth of what Cordia does.
One of the
aspects, and I suspect will be a point of discussion in
this half hour that we did in FY '25, is we
enlisted a company called Polis to do a detailed operational
review of the company. I joined Cordia as a
CEO on an interim basis in April of
2024. One of the first things the board asked me to do
was really to do a detailed review of how Cordia
is performing, how we are
structured internally, what the market opportunities are.
And we brought Polis in.
I won't go too much into that because I suspect there might be some questions
around that. But there was a very detailed review with very, very specific
outcomes, which we've then taken and are actually still
implementing. And I can talk to that in as much
detail as is needed.
And I thought I'd just highlight a couple of
what I think are operational highlights that happened through the year.
You've seen the financial
outcomes that we had, which we're very, very proud of, and we worked very
hard to achieve those, which included removing almost $9 million of
cost and wastage from the business.
But highlights for me through the year,
outside the financial results, were re-signing the contract with Maritime
New Zealand for another 10 years.
As I said, we're very proud to provide that service.
And it's a core service for us, and I think it goes to the DNA of who we are.
We assisted with the Vanuatu earthquake.
When that happened at Christmastime, I remember very well getting the phone call
from Feels Like people that
had been asked to join New Zealand Defense Force to go
across to lift the
communications that had been
decimated. And last week, actually, I was
at a Pacific Islands conference. We do quite a lot on the Pacific Islands as well
to really support our Pacific Island neighbors.
A lot of the technology that we've deployed in New Zealand is now being rolled out
in the Pacific Islands, and we really spend time
helping those customers.
We also won the contract to build the
cell phone coverage inside Te Kaha Stadium in Christchurch, the new
stadium that's just been opened. That was a very competitive bid, and we're
very, very proud to have won that. And we've actually, obviously beyond FY
'25, but we've just handed that over before it went live, and it was
on time and on budget. And actually, the
performance outstrips the requirements. So we're very proud of that.
I obviously can't and won't go into the cybersecurity events,
but there was numerous cybersecurity events that we helped customers and
also non-customers. So quite often we'll get a knock on the
door at about 6:00 PM on a Friday, tends to be when they
happen, when an event has happened and people come
to us and ask for our assistance, and we have a team ready to help them.
And we also
were a key part of broadcasting many, many sporting events and cultural
events through our media broadcast
team. So I just wanted to give that as a little bit of a frame up,
and hopefully that's been helpful. And happy to take any questions.
Yeah. Thank you so much for that overview.
And first question from Ruben Davidson
Thank you, Madam Chair. And I just wanted to acknowledge, in a previous
career in broadcasting, I saw the commitment Claudia's team had to climbing
up mountains with microwave links to bounce signals across Mountable
ridgetops to
get the pictures and sound out. So very aware of the
amazing work your team does out in the field to do that.
Wanted to jump straight into the financial performance, which you've mentioned,
and the decision in this financial year not to pay a
dividend. So I just wanted to dig into that a little more, and
also to look at what the forecast or target is for the
next financial year as far as whether you expect to be
investing back or
returning a dividend.
So in FY25, we did pay a dividend.
No, no. We're paying the dividend-
Yes
... this year.
Yes.
So we've just declared a dividend for the interim dividend for the current
financial year of two and a half million.
Mm-hmm.
So for the FY25 year, we were
carrying the financial consequences of exiting out of the PSN
contract-
Yes
... which put us into a position where we weren't able to pay a dividend.
But we have turned that around, and the financial performance is back on track.
Cool.
All good. Lawrence Fan. Thank you, Madam Chair.
Thank you so much for coming.
Thank you.
I want to check, so one of the things that you mentioned is around
the environmental impact of Cordia, and I was looking at, I
think, page
40... 37 of your report-
Mm-hmm
... talking about environmental impact.
Can I just check, I also noticed that you are scaling up the
use of AI technology and et cetera, as you know, out of necessity.
Mm-hmm.
Do you factor in the use of AI and energy consumption of
AI into your environmental impact
and emissions?
Not currently. But
we're still, I would say, in the early stages of
spinning up AI. So we have specific use cases that we're using it for, but we're
not using it en masse.
And we have tools that have AI built into it that we
utilize in our operation centers especially.
Yeah.
And obviously we measure the electricity requirements
from that, but we don't specifically measure the
environmental impacts of AI as of yet.
But that would be scope three. So we-
Correct
...
we're very good in terms of scope one and scope two.
Yeah.
But we haven't gone into detail in terms of scope three at this stage.
Just checking, what's the rough timeframe for scope three?
I think-
Is there one?
Yeah. No, I don't know that there is because the complexity of it and the changes
to the expectations around reporting in this regard, in terms of what's
feasible and the double counting that occurs when everyone's doing scope three.
So yeah, when you guys come up with a solution on that, we'll happy to follow it.
Okay then. Thank you so much.
We follow the legislation that's required.
Yeah.
Yes.
Thank you. All right. Supplementary from Reuben Edwards.
Yeah, just supping on the question around AI.
Mm-hmm.
And I imagine there'll be a few more questions on this topic.
But looking at the annual report, page 13, there's a
reference to a number of
support and governance documents which are then listed as bullets.
And runs through a whole range of issues and considerations for staff and your
team. There's no specific reference in there to any policy around
AI or internal policy around AI, which surprised me.
But is that
included within one of those?
We do have one now.
You're right.
Yeah. So as part of the journey of AI, we have, as a board, put in place
the AI policy.
So when-
And as you can imagine, you have to look at it very regularly because things are
changing. You know, when we first put it in place, we were saying, "You can only
use these tools," and very rapidly that became attainable.
Yeah.
So we have it on a much more regular cadence of reviewing it.
And we also brought onto the board in the more recent
round, an individual who has a very strong background in AI.
So from a governance perspective,
we're all learning, but I think we're doing the best we can.
So when was that policy initiated?
Well, it would've been in this current financial year-
This-
... that it got put in place. Yeah.
And what's the
process for...
Because you
say correctly that these things keep getting updated.
Yeah.
What's the process for making sure everybody knows that that policy's getting
updated?
So all policies, so one of the things that we've put in place
is a system called Highvol, which is our HRSS system, which
manages all communications to staff.
And through that, we release policies and all staff, once
policies are released, have to go and read it and tick and identify that they've
actually read it and at times do a little mini test just to make sure that they
understand what the policy is. And all that's tracked.
Mm-hmm.
So that's for all policies that go through.
All right. Arena Williams.
Thank you. And thank you all for joining us this morning.
I'm really interested in the way that the group is changing-
Mm-hmm
... and the divestment of the managed IT business to Fusion
5.
Mm-hmm.
And
I see how that fits in with the statements around
a new purpose and trying to understand how you see the group
changing in the next couple of years,
in response to the work that you have done.
And which parts of these are critical assets to New
Zealand, which parts of these are part of the strategic monopoly assets-
Mm-hmm
... that are really important for public ownership.
And which parts do you see as, say the managed IT business, it would've
been hard for me to make a case to New Zealanders that that might have been sort of
a critical monopoly asset. So talk to me about what this looks like over the next
couple of years.
Yeah, no, very good question. We spent
a lot of time working through this and thinking it, because it's really important
for Courtards, as I think it is every business, to have a very clear
sense of who you are and what
you want to achieve, and the why. Why you exist,
for the staff,
the owner, and your customers.
Our focus is around critical communications infrastructure and
cyber resilience. That's our North Star.
And really, the way we look at that is we're looking for entities
and customers where consequences is actually the
issue, not convenience. So if there's a
customer that, for example, obviously safety of life, there's a huge
consequence attached to that if we don't do that well.
Broadcast, if we are not broadcasting as needed,
again, there's a huge consequence.
Cybersecurity, if we're not keeping cybersecurity customers safe, there's
a huge consequence. That's how we measure what we do.
Neil, if I can touch a-
Please
... little bit on the history. So,
Cordia has come out of the media and broadcast space.
Mm-hmm.
And everyone knows that digital terrestrial television is on a
gradual downward slope, and the broadcast is
increasingly using internet in terms of how they're communicating and putting
everything out. So from a board perspective, when you look at that, you say, "Well,
we have fixed costs and a declining revenue line." So over the years,
there's been a lot of work done to diversify the business.
Mm-hmm.
And if you look back, you can see this is run like that.
And-
Mm-hmm
... now they're gradually paring back to work out where are the areas where they
can be successful and have sources of competitive advantage and an ability
to be successful.
Mm-hmm.
You asked the question about what needs to be critically owned
by-
The people
... the New Zealand government and the people.
Yeah. Mm-hmm.
That's a really hard one because, in some instances, the things that we
do, being Crown-owned is constraining because we
not necessarily have the capital to invest into scale and growth and so forth.
But in other instances, having the Cordia brand and reputation helps enormously in
terms of trust and so forth.
It's up to the shareholders to decide-
Yeah
... what they want to do with Cordia.
In Australia, BAI, which is the equivalent, was
sold over a decade ago. And they are performing really
well and have expanded enormously because they've got private capital in
them. It's a different story here in terms of what we're doing.
But also, you have to take into account, for example,
Cordia's communications were critical in Gabrielle, in Kaikoura-
Mm-hmm
... recent weather events. So it's not an easy answer.
Just-
All right.
Just one quick follow-up.
Okay. Sure.
Robin and I have recently met with TechNZ, FinTechNZ.
They're all saying,
and I'm sure they're saying to all political parties, there is some critical
infrastructure here which New Zealand is missing.
The bridges and the roads of the future that are those digital connections,
things like an API center to actually use between parties who want
to compete in finance-
Okay
... and in the digital age, but cannot because we don't have that infrastructure
here. Are you looking at the other pieces of critical digital
infrastructure that do make sense for New Zealanders to own?
Yeah.
The short answer is yes. So we're looking forward.
We're looking
at data sovereignty, for example, as a key thought process that we're going
through. We're looking at an example of that is if you think
about our sites around the country at the moment, with the large
towers, they typically have a large building at the bottom of them.
Yeah.
Those large buildings used to be very full of analog equipment.
They're now largely empty because it's digital.
But you have this wonderful computer space which has resilience,
which has connectivity, and we're thinking about how can we use that in the
best way for Cordia and for New Zealand,
especially when you think about data sovereignty.
We're thinking about the advances in space and
LEO satellites, what's happening there.
Mm-hmm.
What space Cordia can play in that.
One of the things that I didn't talk about that we do is we actually manage
the Warkworth satellite station for Spark New Zealand, so we have
expertise in that area. So we're looking at that and understanding what does that
look like, what is this massive growth in, and I actually think a
fundamental competitive advantage New Zealand has in this area because
of where we're positioned,
and the land that we have and the infrastructure we have. So we're looking at that.
So there's various areas that we're looking at to understand what does Cordia
of the future look like. I think your point was really excellent.
It's
about deciding what is the critical infrastructure and
assets that Cordia needs to own, and how do we leverage that for the future.
And if I can just add to that. I think the most
strategic asset that Cordia owns is our digital microwave radio
network.
Yes.
Mm-hmm.
It's nationwide. It was built 25 years ago.
We're just upgrading it now. It was built to transport the media content
to our sites to distribute, but it's the most probably resilient network in the
country.
Mm-hmm.
It stayed up with the Kaikoura earthquake, Christchurch
earthquake, the recent cyclones, and we've partnered with the
telcos to actually transport some of their mobile tech-
Mm-hmm
... on that network too. So for us, that's very
strategic and plays to that mission-critical resilience.
Mm-hmm.
Right. We'll go to Dr. Vanessa Banning.
Thank you, Madam Chair. Thanks very much. It's good to see you.
We've been reading about you over the term of this parliament,
but not necessarily getting to see you, so it's good.
So the renewal of that 10-year Maritime New Zealand contract's
obviously a really important piece,
not just for service outcomes, but it looks to me as though
that would be underpinning some of the
utilization of your other assets across your network to the longer
term legacy, that thing. So given that that's a
long-term public contract, how important is
that
to have that for that long-term duration to be able to then
underpin your ability to then continue to
invest in things like cloud and cyber, whilst
still maintaining that
legacy but safety for infrastructure?
Yeah.
It's very important. I think from memory, the maritime
network utilizes around 54 of our sites.
And so that long-term contract does
provide, yeah, a lot of scale for those other things.
On those sites also, we have a lot of FM services.
And we believe that also has a huge life on it, buoyed by the fact that the
Crown has recently obviously
provided those 20-year licenses.
But also the fact that New Zealand has a very
long vehicle turnover, 14.8 years.
So not just the maritime, but I think FM and
obviously digital television, which we recently signed TVNZ up for
several more years. All those things do play a big part in
allowing us to leverage those assets into similar things
across infrastructure and mission-critical resilience.
Can I just ask something? So given that you are a,
I don't know if you'll be able to answer this.
Given you are a state-owned enterprise, wholly state-owned,
do you think that plays a part in winning some of those longer-term public
contracts? Is that--
Would a-
No.
If you were to be a public-
You need the assets to win them, so.
Yeah.
Okay.
And because I got asked this by
somebody else a little while ago, and I think the example to point to that is we
also won the same for Australia.
Yeah.
And obviously another state-owned enterprise in Australia.
So I think it's our capability and our proven track record that really made the
difference.
Great, thank you.
Dr. David Wilson.
The primary is...
Cheers. Yes. The primary is really pleased to see
you're moving into AI,
right down to agentic AI, which means we can make this thing work without
somebody on the other end necessarily, but just checking.
So you're on a journey there.
Mm-hmm.
The two things that spring to mind here is how's that going, and the second thing
that springs to mind in terms of your security operations center is how is
that integrated with the National Security Center,
exchanging information and working together?
So yes, definitely on a journey with AI, as I think we
all are.
We've taken a slightly different approach with AI to
possibly traditional. So our head of AI is also actually the head of people and
culture.
So rather than taking it from a technology lens, we're taking it from a how do
we use AI to allow people to do their job better
or actually to do more valuable work,
rather than it's a pure technology, let's roll it out and everybody has to use
it approach.
Yeah.
And that's really gaining momentum because it means that
the examples of AI become a lot more almost business case
focused, where we can actually do a better job, save more money, or
do things better faster.
If we think about our operation center, AI is a key tool that we
use in those.
There's absolutely
huge
leaps and bounds in capability that's happening there almost on a weekly
basis.
We do that largely through the tools that we use.
There's several key tools that we use to monitor.
So if we think about operation center as eyes on glass, where you're monitoring
everything that's happening. Being able to use AI to do that and actually surface
up the information for key people to take action on as opposed to have a
range of people. It also allows us to scale because it means
for every new customer, we don't need to bring on new people.
So that's a key part.
And to your final question, yes, we work very closely
with the National Security Center.
We pass information backwards and forwards on a regular
basis. We have people with clearances to have the appropriate conversations,
and they happen on a regular basis.
So in this center, it's a matter of can we afford not to.
Yes.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
My second question was your comments around microwave and
the towers and reaching into regional areas.
And so,
I guess what I'm asking here is
how successful have we been or could we be in terms of reaching far
out places, regional areas that have got no connectivity, and not just
in an emergency-
Yes
... but full stop to allow them to take advantage of what's happening
now.
Do you want to take that?
Yeah. Very successful. I mean, we have a number of
digital microwave radio-only solutions for customers,
particularly in those agricultural regions and regions
where fiber isn't as efficient.
The DMR radio network I was talking about is a trunk line, and
then off that trunk line, then we can have more specific,
targeted DMR radio to service any customer anywhere.
And that's also complemented now by satellite Starlink.
So we utilize that form of connectivity as well.
Yeah. So it's integrated with different modes.
Yeah. Giving more and more of that as well.
That's amazing. Last thing I'll just say, congratulations on your turnaround.
Thank you.
Financially.
All right. Supplementary from Lawrence Yuna.
Just a very quick supplementary. On the connectivity in rural
areas, one of the things we've heard is the concern around this
establishment decommissioning 3G.
Just when you're talking about Starlink, can I just check that those level
of connectivity is able to be utilized in all weather patterns?
Well, there'd be some weather patterns, some storms that may
knock out that connectivity.
And so that's why we ensure that we have at least two forms of
connectivity complemented by Starlink.
The primary is normally the digital microwave radio network or the
fiber network. But yeah, there's always going to be something
that potentially can knock out Starlink in
space.
New question from Ruben Davidson.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
The minister's '24, '25 letter of expectation encouraged you
to
You know, position yourself for a challenging environment, but also to
stay responsive to industry changes and, the thing that I'm really interested in,
support media customers through difficult conditions.
So how are you supporting media customers?
Collaborative
approach with TVNZ to look at extending their digital
television contracts with Kordia.
The negotiation probably took eight months.
Weekly meetings with their senior team and our senior team,
looking at their challenges in respect to operating
multiple platforms. So as you well know,
they developed a digital platform which adds more cost to
their business.
They're trying to move their customers across the legacy
platforms to the digital ones.
And so we've developed a commercial model that helps them with
that while giving us the tenure,
and a definitive period
of term. So yeah, it's creative,
and I think both parties at the end of that negotiation
were satisfied with those outcomes,
giving TVNZ the ability to manage their costs
and, for Kordia to extend the
term
several more years.
Just to add on to that, the other thing that we're doing is we're working with a
company in the UK called Arqiva, which specializes in
software products that help
media entities move into the cloud, put
content through the cloud, and do that in a very cost-effective way.
So we're actually bringing those
products to market to help the media companies actually make the transition.
So rather than stopping them, we're actually working with them to help them make
the transition that they need to make.
Yeah, great. And are you- A very quick sup on that.
Beyond TVNZ, are there any other companies that you've
been working with
in a
larger way than the cloud migration potentially-
Absolutely
... and if so, how are you tracking and reporting who you're working with and
therefore who you're not?
We're working with all our digital television customers right now.
A lot of work's going in with Sky following the acquisition of Warner Brothers
Discovery. And yeah, those negotiations are
ongoing.
Great. We'll have to conclude this hearing here. Thank you so much for your time.
You might receive some questions later on. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you very much for the opportunity.
Thank you.
Members, we move into private session now.